# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
In the console.rb, on lines 6, 15 and 24.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
In property.rb, line 31:
db.prepare("save", sql)

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
On line 4, Property.delete_all(),
line 13 property1.save(),
line 22 property2.save(),
line 31 property3.save()
line 33 property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
The id of a 'Property' object changes if more properties are added and how many times the database is run.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
In property.rb, line 32:
@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
To make sure the id information in the hash is in the instance, as well.


Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
An instance method can has access to each instance variable created from the original class, these can be changed without affecting the original class. Class methods belong to the class itself and an instance can be required. If a class method is needed to return all values, an instance is not required.


Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
`db.exec_prepared()` returns a PG::result object which is an array of hashes.


Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
Prepared statements can be written once and executed multiple times, each result can have varying values.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

Q11. What are their return values?
